Product Title:
GDA CropID map for 2024 South Asia (250-meters)
Produced By:
GDA Corp (GeoSpatial Data Analysis Corporation)
Released:
May 1, 2024
Referencing the File:
GDA CropID GIS map shall be referred to, in all instances, as "GDA_CropID_SouthAsia_2024_RapeseedWinter_250m"
Abstract:
GDA CropID 2024 South Asia map is a GIS raster format product with 250-meter spatial resolution. The map offers 2024 winter (rabi) rapeseed locations for the top four rapeseed-producing provinces of India (Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, and Haryana), along with all of Bangladesh. The GDA crop name corresponds with the growing season (i.e., the rabi season occurs during the winter). Nearly all of the region’s rapeseed is grown during the winter/rabi season.
2024 refers to the crop harvest year.
GDA CropID maps utilize time series of GDA GeoChronicles™ imagery coverages. GDA GeoChronicles™ are global deep time series of 10-day, 10-meter analysis ready optical satellite imagery coverages produced by GDA Corp by fusing Copernicus Sentinel-2A and Sentinel-2B imagery and NASA / USGS Landsat 8 and Landsat 9 imagery.
GDA uses deep time series of GeoChronicles™ composites to identify crop type and land cover locations during each given season.
The CropID product is produced by GDA Corp for USDA Foreign Agricultural Service (USDA FAS) under a Small Business Innovative Research (SBIR) contract with the USDA/FAS/GMA/IPAD.
The 250-meter CropID product was originally produced at 10-meter spatial resolution. The final 10-meter crop mask was resampled to 250-meters for use on the USDA/NASA Global Agricultural Monitoring (GLAM) system at
https://glam1.gsfc.nasa.gov/
.
Coverage:
Top four major rapeseed-producing provinces in India (Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, and Haryana) and full coverage of Bangladesh.
Spatial Resolution:
250-meters. The original classification is performed at 10-meters.
File Format:
GeoTIFF
Projection:
ESPG:3857, WGS 84 / Pseudo-Mercator.
Crop Harvest Year:
2024
Classification Categories:
ID  NAME
96 Rape Seed / Canola (Winter / Rabi)
Crop Area Estimates:
GDA 2024 South Asian winter/rabi rapeseed area estimates are available in CropSignal™ under the "GDA Area" source.
License:
GDA grants USDA Foreign Agricultural Service (FAS) a Federal Government-wide license to utilize the 250-meter products for Federal Government applications such as the USDA/NASA GLAM system (
https://glam1.gsfc.nasa.gov/
)
GDA grants USDA FAS a license to share derivative GIS and non-GIS thematic products, maps, analytical products, and/or reporting created by USDA FAS with Federal Government, USDA FAS partners, and the public.
Technical data, computer software developed, and/or source code developed under this contract is furnished with SBIR Data Rights (according to FAR 52.227-20 Rights in Data—SBIR Program).
Resource Contact:
Dmitry Varlyguin, GDA Corp. / Chief Scientist; dmitry @ gdacorp . com
Copyright:
GDA Corp.; 301 Science Park Road, Suite 112, State College, PA, USA 16803;
http://www.GDAcorp.com